Hello and welcome back.
Day we'll be working with Microsoft.
Ask your server and we're going to be uploading our first dataset into the room management studio.
So in order to do this first of all I need to download the ask your server upload code.
It's a bit different.
So as you can see I have a super day the signs start to go such as call open up and just scroll down
here to Section free.
We have here to challenge it already looked at Bosco's you all upload code and M-S as you all upload.
So I had to know that also going to lower consumer complaints to be vile.
Just in case you haven't done that already I'm going to drag and drop these files to my desktop.
Just wait for his definition of loading.
And now I'm going to open a skills for a Management Studio and continue work from there.
So first I'm going to drag and drop this here.
We can close the browser right now.
We're going to open our skills for management studio.
So
we're just loading up a whole new instance just to make sure we have everything the same.
We're on the new page so here as you can see.
You just need to it's like we serve on the connect so select a new server for me it's this Mac Asgill
Express.
Don't worry about this weird symbol.
Just my system doesn't recognize slashes.
For some reason so.
Go ahead click connect.
Now this window pops up.
So Microsoft the SQL Server Management Studio is open up.
The first thing you want to do is check if you have any databases.
So if it's a clean version of Microsoft Asgill surmisal studio you should not have anything here and
this is the case with me.
So what I want to do is right click right here and select new database so this window now opens up in
which all I'm going to do is just change the database name for our first dataset.
It will be called consumer complaints so this is exactly what I'm going to call my database so you can
put underscores here you can write them as one word you can write them and all small letters or all
caps letters.
It's up to you for databases.
I just prefer to put them as separate words beginning with capital letters.
So here we'll just going to leave everything by default click OK as you can see it's executing and now
it's done.
So now we have consumer complaints database here we have zero tables so it has no data in it and that's
again absolutely fine.
So go ahead.
Open our consumer complaints the CCV file but instead of opening up through Excel we're just going to
open it up right here and ask kills her management to do it.
We're going to load it up into this out of ACE as a table and work it from there.
So all I need to do right here is I can right click on consumer complaints so I get this right click
here.
Go to tasks and go to the very bottom of the dropdown menu and select import data.
And you wonder will pop up just basically say next here and now for the data source.
This is important because we're working with not Microsoft Excel but see CSFB file.
I'm going to select flat file source.
Now give it a second this window now loads up in here.
Just go browse for me.
The file is on my desktop.
I just need to change this to a city.
Here it is.
Consumer complaints that Asadi.
Then they click Open AALA kill.
Just leave it in English code page live in Adelaide and it's a good form of limited now decs qualify
it's very important because SCV stands for a comma separated meaning that right now Microsoft will get
all the values from the table that Sivi they will and it will make sure that every columns and that
when it sees a comma.
But what happens if inside the text we have a comma.
For example we have green Colma rad grome come up blue.
This is why I would put Tex qualify.
It means that everything inside everything inside the text symbol is text.
So just remember it is pretty important especially for this file.
We're going to be working with today.
Hetero.
Just leave it like this.
Column names in the first data row.
Make sure to click an ad because in our database right here we're just exported from Excel.
You can see that the columns will be automatically picked up the names for and everything looks correctly.
So here you can just scroll down.
Make sure that all the data looks pretty good.
Everything looks good to me.
We have all the columns name properly all of them organized neatly clicked advanced.
This is a pretty important step in here we can individually click on every one of them and change the
data type and call delimit and take the fight and so forth.
We're just going to shift select all of them and change the output column to fight.
So we're just putting it to 5000 just in case we have an insanely large column and then send the large
cell in one of these columns.
We don't need to do anything.
It's already set so we just can check out all of them are set up to 5000.
So now we can preview it again.
Everything makes sense everything looks beautiful.
Well go ahead click next.
In here the destination because are working with Microsoft server.
Ask your server when you dislike this one Microsoft.
Only the provider for rescue and server like this one server name.
I make sure to keep it the one that's opened right here an object Explorer the one that you loaded that
your Microsoft skills sort of management studio into.
Then you can use it as Jolter and a patient.
Or if it's your personal computer you can use your Windows affiliation.
Fellows go ahead.
Click next.
It will just take a tiny bit of time in here.
Just double click this destination where you can say roll.
And the reason we call this a raw consumer complaints table.
I will explain in a second.
So let's click next run immediately next.
Finish.
Wait for it exited.
As you can see it exit kids in a matter of seconds.
It takes very little time to process this whole large sixty five thousand rows of data a thing and turn
them into a table inside the Eskew all.
So Microsoft Asgill server is definitely a very quick software and it's very nice to have that if somebody
worked with gray in the squares you can already see the difference because there it took a very long
time to import the data and just to work with data in general so as you can see now it took a little
while.
Everything is finished.
Sixty five thousand four hundred ninety nine rows transferred.
Let's click close.
You won't see anything here just because you need to click refresh right click anywhere click refresh
now we see a new table here.
Let's go ahead.
Right click on it.
Select tough and Rose and you see that data inside of there is correct.
So don't worry about the code now you'll learn it a bit later.
Just make sure you see old table nice and neatly.
It looks right and at this point we can already work with it.
But I like to take a step more and prep the data a bit better.
So in order to do this now we need to pull up that upload code word document.
So let's open it up and see what's inside.
So make sure we have the preview enabled.
Or rather editing and able.
And inside of here you see this nice neat little piece of code.
So make sure to copy Control-C then we can close this file inside of here.
Put new Querrey or you can just substitute this text.
So copy this text into here let's make sure everything's correct.
So what it does.
Basically we're using this database.
Consumer complaints looks good so far.
We're creating a new table this called consumer complaints not raw consumer complaints and that we're
saying that we're inserting into consumer complaints.
So the biggest problem you might have right here in upload code is that if you named your table anything
different to what I've named that you you will have an issue.
So what you need to do.
Delete this and just drag and drop this here.
So just drag and drop your role table that we've just created for Microsoft skills or a management studio
and right just click execute.
Let's see what it tells us.
Just merge us a bit.
As you can see all the sixty five thousand rows affected everything is on right.
And if we just refresh this we can see two tables.
Now what is the benefit of doing this is because as you can see we narrowed down a lot of different
columns to a certain width so that they will take less space and they will run even more efficient.
So now that we have this it's your choice what do you want to delete this raw table or not.
It's a good idea to keep a backup to keep it up there in case something happens to the database to the
table you're working with.
In my case I wanted to show you how it's done.
All you need to do right click on it.
Delete this new window will pop up in which all you have to do is say OK don't delete it.
As you can see it immediately refreshes itself.
So everything is nice here.
We're ready to work with this table now.
And I'm very excited about it.
I'm hope you're excited about it too.
I hope you enjoy today's lecture and I'll see you in the next one.